So maybe. Uh, it is helpful for others
as well, so this is a good opportunity
for you to put the feedback on anything
related to the course and this time it's
very important because this course was my.
First course, uh, I mean not.
The first was actually, uh,
this system programming was.
Uh, my first course in this school.
So the department-- department,
look at your feedback and if it needs
some adjustment or it needs for instance.
Ah. A better way of teaching etc.
They gonna look at your feedback.
So I highly suggest you to go through
that link and fill out the form.
And put your feedbacks.
We already did one as survey
and after the reading week.
So I tried my best to accommodate
a other accommodation.
Actually to, uh,
address some issue with my teaching.
Uh, slides and etc.
And, uh, again,
if you think that it needs more
improvement or still there's
some space for improvement,
that's a good opportunity for you
to leave your comments or feedback.
Ah, this is one thing,
so I think next lecture I mean Wednesday.
We may allocate just the
beginning of the class.
Or I mean I don't know two
or three minutes to students
who fill out the form.
But just as a heads up for you,
I mean because they cannot
close it in two days.
Any question?
OK, seems there is no question. Ah.
So let's start today's lecture.
OK, so.
So before I start I need you
to send me some images we have.
I mean luckily we have 25 student now.
So thank you Aminesh.
Thank you Randy, Meysam, Danielle.
Sasha is freezing, Natalia.
Good, so everybody is ready.
So basically, today's topic.
Is borrowed from the theme of this
another brilliant movie by Roman Polanski,
Rosemary's baby at 1968.
Again, you may think that it's an old movie,
but I highly suggest you to watch this movie.
Uh, it's a horror movie.
One of the greatest horror movies,
uh, but, uh. You'll see that why I?
I mean, put the. Why my lectures are
based on the theme of this movie?
And this movie was based on the novel
by 11 the same name Rosemary's Baby.
And this is a great actor Mia Farrow. So.
This is another movie suggestion for you.
Your last week of this lecture.
Ah, just as a reminder this Wednesday we can.
We have the deadline for our
last set of labs and lectures.
So just as a quick reminder, hopefully more.
I mean, all of you could. Uh.
write your programs also answered the
lecture assignments. And, uh.
So far, uh? We introduced a free main.
Part of the kernel.
The File Manager and the network
manager and process manager.
We won't discuss the other two important
part of the kernel device manage the
device manager and memory manager.
Uh, not only we don't have enough time,
but also it they.
These are two part of the kernel needs some.
A requirement I mean prerequisite topics.
That you need to pass some
courses to understand the topics
in these two part of the kernel.
And, uh, basically we are done with, uh,
studying the different parts of the kernel.
So. Just a quick review.
I mean, I'm here on Wednesday.
I'm going to have a better review
on whatever we discussed so far,
but as a quick review I just
wanted to explain to say that.
All these are.
System calls that we provide
or reintroduce is from the one
paradigm that we can call them
technological services or technologies.
So all these technologies is
offered by the kernel in order
to provide the application level
programs with the better programs,
and I mean an efficient programs.
For instance, in File Manager file system,
the kernel provides system calls
in order to have a program to
communicate with devices or files.
In process manager or process control.
Uh,
the kernel provides how to
bootstrap a program,
how to have multiple processes
inside their memory,
and how to make a communication between them.
Through different technologies.
Also in the network manager,
although it's a huge topic.
But we briefly introduce a small part
of that which provides us to make
a communication between different
processes inside different computers.
By socket system called and we had some
example about TCP IP network protocol.
Again, for the memory manager,
there are topics.
These are the two main important topics,
virtual memory and paging.
In order to understand the these two topics,
you need to pass this course.
Operating system.
The third course...
I mean a third year course also in
order to understand the device
manager part of the kernel,
such as how to write a device
driver for the device in order to.
Are introduced that device to the kernel.
So you need to pass these courses,
COMP2660: Micro
processor programming.
There's another important course
I couldn't find this course
in the curriculum for the CS.
But most of the CS schools, uh,
have this course. Assembly language.
Basically, uh,
whether I made a mistake or the assembly
language going to be covered in this course.
But in some schools this is a
I mean single course.
The whole semester you learn how
to write an assembly language.
And if you learn how to do
the assembly language,
you will learn how to deal with hardware.
And it's a huge help for you.
Oh OK, so then uh yes.
So in this school they're going
to cover it in this course,
but again,
in other course I mean in
other schools they put more focus on that.
So that's why I didn't discuss them
because you need these courses topics
introducing these courses to understand
the topics in this part of the kernels.
But one thing I'm going to, uh,
specifically today I'm going to discuss,
is that one. One good news is that I'm not
going to introduce any new system call or
any part of the kernel. So we are done.
So the last week I'm going to explain
more about this topic design patterns.
So. We said that we are writing
programs at an application level.
Meaning that we just wanted to use the
system calls provided by the kernel. So.
How we write these programs having all
these system calls available at our hand?
How can we mix them?
How can we use them in order to
design an efficient program or?
Beautiful or pretty programs.
So you may say that.
Oh this adjective is not
relevant to programs,
we just write a program to do some tasks.
Why we need to write a program that
are beautiful, or they're pretty.
So that's why I'm going to.
I mean, that's the topic of today.
So.
We don't write program just to do the task.
We have to write programs on top
of doing the tasks successfully,
but also doing the task beautifully
or in a pretty way.
So that's called design.
And we follow some patterns
that are beautiful,
so we call them design patterns.
So as a introduction in the left side,
these are the technologies
provided by the kernel.
So by fork the kernel says that I
can create a new process for you.
By wait I I you can ask the kernel
to wait the process for you.
However, we use these system calls for
writing programs following a design which is,
for instance, the design of hierarchy
between a parent and a child and grandchild.
So these names doesn't have
any sense for the kernel.
They can and doesn't know what is apparent.
What is a child? They cannot.
The only thing knows is that just forking,
creating a new process,
waiting and etc.
We are.
The programmers that follows the
hierarchy or follows the specific
names or ideas from the real world.
A parent child hierarchy,
for instance.
As another instance of the kernel
provides piping or reading or writing
to a pipe in order to provide a a
communication between two processes.
We are the person we are.
The programmers that follows a
pattern called producer Consumer.
So these are the patterns that
are borrowed from the real world
and we follow these patterns.
We write a program based on these ideas.
By using these technologies,
for instance that conversation.
So the kernel doesn't know what
is conversation the kernel.
The only thing it knows is
that just provide you pipe.
I provide you the read or write to the
pipe and etc. We are the person.
I mean the program is that we want to
provide a conversational communication
within the processes for doing
this design or for implementing the
program that follows this design.
We use these technologies.
Another example is this.
We know that the socketing,
binding and etc.
These are related to communication
between two processes in different computers.
We are the programmers that we are
going to follow some design patterns.
Called Sender, receiver or client server.
So the.
Kernel doesn't know what is
client doesn't know what is server
doesn't know what this service,
sender or receiver,
anything for the camera is just
two processes that are sending
images to each other.
We created a role for a program and we call.
This program acts as a sender.
This program acts as a receiver
or this program acts as a client.
This program act as the server.
So we define the role of the program.
We define a follow a design
for a program and etc.
Very interesting example is the last one.
So we know that the kernel provide
forking in order to create a new process.
Also, it provides socket in order to
provide communication between processes,
different computers.
We are the programmers in to mix these
system calls to provide the server that.
Assigns one child to each client not
to wait for a single client at a time.
So this way the server can
continue receiving the calls from.
Uh, other clients.
While the child is communicating with the client.
So.
The kernel doesn't know how or doesn't
care how you mix these system calls to
provide a program to write a program.
We follow a design in order to write
a beautiful or an efficient program.
So today before I start a new topic,
I'm going to a little bit discuss about.
Uh, writing programs that are
pretty or following some designs.
So just as another example, by knowing
the technology you know the material.
You know that for instance,
for window you can use the glasses for.
I mean I mean building
the I mean a structure.
You know how to mix the concrete and etc.
Putting together to build this structure.
So these are materials,
but what matters as a programmer
is that how you write your program
using these systems system calls.
You can't build your program as a noise
and efficient way like this. Or this,
or you can write a program like this.
All of these houses does the task,
meaning that a living place for a person.
But the way you build that house, it matters.
Another example is these two so.
You want to provide a connection or
connecting towers so you can build
just a simple two towers like this.
And then connect them by just a bridge.
Or you can design a building like this.
Beautiful,
efficient and I mean a kind of mesmerising.
So it matters how you write your program
using the materials or technologies.
As a software programmer.
You only you can decide only use
the system calls to does the task
you don't care about the design,
you just wanted to finish the task.
However, if you are a little
bit more professional,
a little bit more interested in programming,
you want not only write a
program that does the task,
but you want to write an
efficient and pretty or beautiful.
Program, so you go further and
you act as a software designer.
Software design is going to be paid
much more than the software programmer,
or sometimes they call.
We call them developers.
And after years of being a Software designer,
you become an architect.
Meaning that if somebody wants to
write a program, that person can
give that writing in program to any
other developers or programmers.
However, they come to you and they want
your architecture to write the program.
So. This is the golden, I mean,
uh or kind of top tier of I
mean software development.
So if you become a good architect,
you become famous.
All the other programmers
gonna follow your pattern.
Your way of programming or they
want you to design their programs.
So recently I get to know.
I mean I got to know this Canadian designer
and Karim Rashid you probably know him.
So you can go to his website here.
Ah, he's a famous interior designer.
About the reason I put this slide here
is that he has some good YouTube videos.
In order to explain what is
design and why design matters.
For instance, he explains that.
I mean you can build a I mean shower.
I mean just to just to take a shower,
but there are different designs
that you can enjoy taking the
shower and so just do the task.
So, uh, this I mean, I highly suggest you to.
I mean view his YouTube video in order
to understand what I mean by design.
So just to explain, as an example,
in a I mean hands on experience.
Imagine we have a problem.
So problem a. Which is this?
In a process, we need to
write a huge amount of data.
Which is in memory.
For instance, we have a very large
area of data in your program.
And at some point you want to dump all
these information in a file into a file.
So you have Array, for instance
1,000,000 numbers and you want to write.
These are the results of some programs
and you want to write them into a file.
So. A very, uh,
the first design would be this.
We call this synchronous design,
meaning that you know the open
system called or create system
called so you can open a new file.
Or create a new file and then use
the right system called to write the
arrays of information into the memory.
So what is the pros of this design so it
is very simple and if it is a question
in the final exam or in the lab assignment?
You get the mark.
However, this program has a huge
problem and the problem is that.
When the user runs your program,
the user should wait.
The user cannot see the progress.
Is the user.
Your program cannot
continue with other tasks.
The only thing actually the user can
see is that your program gets stuck in
writing the whole information into a file.
So. There is no progress.
Your program cannot do.
Other tasks cannot be responsive
to the other task of the user,
so we call this a poor design.
So this is a very I mean important.
Uh, I mean, uh. Ward.
And we don't say.
We don't say it is an incorrect answer,
or we don't say.
It is a false answer. It is a correct.
You can have the full mark.
What we can say that this is a poor design,
meaning that nobody kind
of like this program.
Nobody gonna use this program,
nobody gonna.
I mean like your program.
A better way to solve
the same problem is this.
We call this asynchronous way of writing.
So you can't create a file by open or
create signal system for system calls.
You already know that there is
another system called which provides
a new process for you forking.
So by forking, you can create a new
process as a child and then give
the task of writing to the child.
This way your program doesn't
wait or doesn't.
I mean I can go further with other tasks
and the child can go the task and do
the task of writing in the background.
So what is the pros?
The process that the program continues
with other stuff the user can do other
stuff in your program while the child
is doing the writing to the file.
Also, you get the full mark,
plus you get this comment from me as
an instructor or other program is.
You can receive the good job
comment meaning that.
Everybody kind of follow your
way of programming or they gonna
use your uh I mean programs.
But what is the cost?
What is the disadvantage?
The cost is that you should
know the fork system called.
You should know how a new process
is creating by the kernel.
You should know how to.
Play the program that acts
as a parent and child,
so we already discussed that.
So the cost is that you should
know you should have a,
I mean larger knowledge
about forking and etc.
So you would say that is it worth it or not.
So what would be your answer?
So if you are given this
task as a lab assignment.
And you are given one week.
So which design do you follow?
The first design synchronous or
the second design asynchronous.
So Justin says, I follow
the design two anybody else.
Daniel says design two second design.
Others.
Mason says it depends on
the importance of the task,
so as I said, this is the task.
The task is just writing
the huge array for file.
So it could be important
it could not be important,
but The thing is that this is the task.
Yes, actually, uh.
Michelle says that yes,
the cost is that you should know,
or you should have an experience
with forking with child parents,
processes and etc.
So you need a learning curve.
You have to pass the learning
curve about working and etc.
However, at the end of this
course you know what is working.
You know what is the read
or write to final etc.
So after this.
Course if you are given this task.
I would. I mean,
I would expect you to follow the design too.
If you want to be hired in big companies,
or if you want to be a good design,
software designer or software architect,
I would highly suggest you to follow.
Those designs that are more
efficient and more beautiful.
Yeah. So, however, if you may given
just one hour to do the task,
you may say that OK,
one hour dealing with forking and etc.
There are a lot of compiler or there are
a lot of bugs you already experienced.
The problem with working and
etc in the lab assignments.
So if you are given just one hour
you may go for the first design
because you have just one hour.
So the poor design.
Actually worth it because
you have just one hour.
However, if you have one week,
you can go with a better design.
So we have a question
from Michelle. Go ahead.
Yeah, I was. It's interesting that
you kind of touched on this idea
'cause I was reading something
the other day about how sometimes
like within a company and y'all
y'all work on the same codebase.
Sometimes when there's like a
really elegant or complex solution
that maybe it's the best solution,
but it can create this sort of
dynamic where it almost makes things
more difficult for the company,
because not every programmer
knows what's going on,
and it's sort of above the skill
level of that particular programmer.
So obviously this goes like way above fork,
but I was just wondering if you've
ever sort of experienced that
sort of in your life where maybe
you or somebody else would just.
Really exceptional programmer
and it just made things difficult
because their skill level was sort
of higher than everybody else was.
That that's a very good question.
Actually,
that was that was actually a
on point question, so.
The next slide is actually is
trying to answer your question.
So there is another design designer, three.
So it is asynchronous like
the previous design.
However, this time the idea is this.
We create a file.
It's not just having one child.
We create N children.
And then we divide or split the array
into end different subparts and then
we give each part to each child to
write that a specific part of the file.
So each child gonna write that
part of the array into the file.
So we have N children.
So. What are the pros?
The pros is that your program.
Very similar to the previous design.
Continued with other stuff.
This time you don't have just a single child,
you have multiple children.
The children does the task,
the children do the task of writing.
This is the amazing advantage.
It is very fast.
Imagine your computer has multiple
processors or would just be with
single process is still the kernel
gives you more share of the CPU.
So this program going to be very fast.
Writing the array into the file.
And also you get the full mark plus.
This I mean remark I mean meaning that wow,
what a good design!
However, what's the disadvantage?
Disadvantage is that not only
you have to know about forking,
not only you have to know about
how the parent and child children
can act with each other another.
Cost is this.
We have to know how to divide the array.
So, assuming that this is the error,
you have to divide it,
for instance into four.
Not just that,
but also assuming this is the file
that you want to write the file,
you have to know what is the exact
starting point of the child.
So the first child gonna start
at this location.
Child 0 The child One gonna
start at this location.
Child two start at this one and etc.
If you try at home,
I would suggest you to write this program.
It takes a lot of time. For instance,
you could write it in two or three weeks.
It's still there's some bugs you
have to find the bugs and make sure
that everything works perfect.
And as Michelle says,
that if you write this program in a company,
you have a high knowledge, you know that.
Assume that assume that you
leave that company.
And another person is hired in that company
and wants to work with this part of the
code or wanted to add some features.
That person may not have these huge
knowledge and that person may become,
I mean, angry at you and saying that.
Why this huge complexity
for this simple problem?
So again, back to the Michelle's question,
there is a tradeoff.
So at the one end you have a poor design.
And the other hand you have a wow design,
but what's the tradeoff in the poor design?
It is very simple.
Everybody can understand that in
their wow design it is complex.
Very few programmers can understand
and can add features to that program.
And we have a good design in between,
so you can expect that other student,
other programmers can understand,
and it's not that difficult for them.
So again,
there is a spectrum from the
very end to other end,
so I hope I could answer your question,
Michelle.
Uh, again. I mean,
this is a good question.
So assume that, uh?
The number of child becomes, I mean,
for instance one million child.
I mean 1,000,000 process
inside the memory.
I mean the cost gonna be
overweight the advantage?
So again, this is a good.
I mean, I'm not saying that I mean,
uh, in any cases, it's a good design.
It has its own challenges.
And again, I mean,
I'm saying that these are different
design patterns and its showcase
your I mean your knowledge,
your way of thinking about
the problem and how beautiful
you can add as a problem.
So as I said, this is very critical.
These designs, all of them are correct,
so there is no right or wrong.
There is no true or false about
this solution. The only thing is
that poor good or wild design.
Again, by accepting the complexity
or the cost of the good designs.
So let's back to the previous slide here.
So we in terms of this two towers
very simple, just two towers with
a single bridge, this design.
Again. One simple bridge,
but you see it has a huge complexity in terms
of using the material to build this building.
Does it worth it?
Again, it depends on the cost
and depends on the money.
It depends on the time and etc.
If you have enough time,
enough money and you want
to showcase your skill,
I would suggest you to become a good
designer and follow a good design.
OK, so now let's go to another uh.
I mean uh, example, problem B.
So so far I just give you some example to
make a connection between the topics that
I'm going to explain about the course.
We have another problem. Which is this?
We already saw that network IPC.
It can provide connection between the
processes in different computers.
But in all our examples,
because we only have these schools machine,
we run the all these processes
in a single machine.
Whether it's a sender,
whether it's a sender or receiver.
Or whether it's a client,
multiple clients and we have the server.
Just for this testing purpose,
we could run them in one single computer.
Although these connections can
be in different computers,
but because we only have one machine,
you could try it based on your
laptop and they you can put this
server on this school machine and
you put your client on your laptop
and then make a connection.
However, in my example in the class,
I put all these processes in a single
computer in the schools machine.
This suggests this idea.
Is it possible?
To have an alternative for IPC
between the processes.
By using the network IP's.
Now that I can run the different
processes inside a single computer
and using the network call to
make a connection between them,
so I may think that why I use the pipe.
Or why I use the signal for make
a connection between or make a
communication between the processor
inside a memory.
I can use socketing inside a single computer.
And here is the design.
So we have one process.
It can act as a sender or as a the client.
It creates the socket it binds the
address or it sends the information.
And then the other process inside
the same computer can create its
own socket and ready to receive
message or listen to the clients.
So it can be the receiver or
it can be this server.
This way we each process has its own socket.
But one single kernel does the communication.
There is no other computers,
so the process one sends the
information to its own socket.
The sockets through the kernel goes
to another socket by the receiver
and the receiver socket sends
the message to the process team.
So now the question is this.
Whenever I want to provide an IPC between
two processes inside a single computer.
Now I have two designs.
One is the parent child design by
forking and signalling and piping.
Another is by using the network IPC
Socketing by inside the same computer.
So we have two designs.
So which one do you choose for IPC?
So it depends on the advantage or
disadvantage of each of these designs.
Again, there is no.
Correct incorrect answer.
These are designs you
can select each of them,
but you have to justify and
you have to say that because
of these I select this one.
So the first advantage of network IPC for
IPC inside the single computer is this.
The parents should not carry
the task of the child.
You remember when you write a program,
we said that by using the fork
and using the new process and
make a connection between them,
their parent should write the codes that
is going to be assigned to the child.
So the parents program should carry
all the codes of lines for the child.
So in the network IPC we don't have that.
The server program had its own code of line.
The client program had its own culture file,
so these codes of lines codes of lines
are in separate programs, and nobody
carries the codes of line for others.
So this is the advantage of network
IPC over the IPC in the same computer.
What's the disadvantage?
The disadvantage is that when you
do the forking and you do IPC
between the parent and child.
It is the patent that has the control
over creating the child they patterned,
decides when to create or went to
call the fork system call and then
it decides which lines of code
should be assigned to the child.
But the Indian network IPC each
process has its own codes offline
and there are alive in the memory.
There is no control or authority from
one process over the other process.
You remember that we said that
the parent can kill the child.
The child can, uh, I mean,
we have this signaling system called
kill and the parent can send the signal
to the child in order to kill the child.
But in the network IPC,
the processes cannot kill each other.
So again, it depends.
In your application,
it depends on whether you want to.
Uh, I mean uh.
Follow the network IPC for
your task and it's enough.
Or you need more control or authority.
There are different advantages
to network IPC.
Also there are a different disadvantage.
Network IPC as an alternative for IPC.
I leave it for you to think about that,
and,
uh.
Now I'm going to go for the new topic.
Uh, which is borrowed from
this movie. Any questions?
So we have a message from Victor to Michelle.
Uh. That was originally created by
Swedish physicist sweetheart himself.
One thing is that yes,
I mean if you look at the a YouTube
video of the Lindstrom in Torvald,
the founder of the Linux, uh.
Uh, I already posted the
URL in the discussion board.
He says something about
what is a pretty code,
what is not practical,
and he explains what we mean by good
design or what we mean by practical.
So we have a question by.
Maysam how it is done?
Do we do a fork? And then pid.
Then do another fork.
If you try after the final
exam to apply this design.
Oh, you're talking about a.
Wait a second, I'm not sure I understand
the question Mason you are talking
about the third design, this one.
Yep. So you already saw this
example in your lab assignment.
You know about the.
Calculating the mood matrix multiplication.
You remember we in the example
in the manual we create.
A child for each row.
And we ask you to write a code to
create a chart for each color.
So this same idea going to
be used here in this design.
So basically, uh,
you first have to know what
is the size of your array.
For instance the sizes M and then you
decide what is the each part that
you want to allocate to each other.
As this is going to be fixed.
For instance, uh.
One MB of data.
Make a point of data,
so then you have to do some calculation
in order to see how many child you need.
And in a four loop you create these children.
But an important part is not about
creating the children, it's about
finding the correct position in the file.
You remember the LC system call.
So you have to first of all, uh,
you have to have multiple file
descriptors because each file descriptor
gonna lose by one of the child.
In order to write to the file.
Another thing is that you have to allow
simultaneous right into a single file.
So that's another complexity because at
any I mean normally the kernel can, right?
At any time, the camera can do the
writing in the file for one process.
You can do multiple or.
I mean I have to solve this in some way.
One way would be this.
You can. Very simple one.
You can write each part in this another part,
another file, for instance file one
file 253 and then wait they are done.
You can simply merge them.
So this is in order to avoid the
complexity of writing by multiple
children into a single file,
because it's it has a lot
of I mean complexity.
But again, as I said,
this is an example that, uh.
A shows that how some designs become
too complex that it's not worth it.
To have that as a solution for problem.
OK, so now about this one.
If you have time, uh, I will.
I mean play the opening scene
of this movie. But for now,
let's continue and then let's see.
We have enough time for that or not.
So why I chose this movie because of this
new topic from the Chapter 13 of the book
Daemon Processes or Daemon process so?
About the naming of, there is a controversy.
There's a huge story or
history behind the naming of.
This design uh,
so you can read about this story in this URL.
Someone, I mean,
some programmers call it demon.
As he I mean.
A meaning of the evil spirit
or some programmers? I mean,
in modern modern programmers called it Damon.
Which is more close to the design
that we are going to explain?
In Greek mythology.
There is a supernatural being or spirit that
does the jobs or tasks in the background.
So these are spirits,
meaning that they are not visible.
So again, this is something that we
borrowed from the real world from the myth
myth or from the I mean the history or etc.
And we want to.
Implement some programs
that followed this design,
borrowed from the real world.
So.
Whether Demon or Daemon uh?
I'm going to explain what
is this design pattern.
So here is the design.
If we need a process.
That wants to live forever.
So far our processes started at some point.
We bootstrapped the process
and then it continues working.
At some point it finishes.
However, we had some processes that never
finishes you remember the the server.
The service has a while loop.
And it always running.
For accepting the calls from the
clients in any program that you
put a while loop and acts forever.
It's a kind of that process
wants to live forever.
Another property is this.
The process wants to act in the background.
The process doesn't want to be visible.
Meaning that this process wants to
be in the memory doing something.
But the process doesn't want the
end user or other users see that
process inside the memory working.
So it's like a spirit.
It's like a demon or daemon.
The spirit.
And also this process can be
passive like this server.
Waits in the background and wants to
answer some requests from other processes.
Or this is the huge difference.
The process in the background
might be proactive,
meaning that that process is doing
some actual work behind the scene,
but the end user cannot see what is
the progress and what are the tasks
that that process is doing. So.
If we want to have such a process,
we have to write a program followed
this design called Demon or Demon.
So the first property the daemon
process wants to live forever.
In order to implement that, we have to
put that process inside the memory.
And then nobody wants to kill that process.
Nobody wants to finish that process
up until you turn off your computer.
In some books or in some,
uh, I mean companies,
they call these processes as
a memory resident process,
meaning that they go inside the memory.
But they never leave the memory up
until you turn off the computer.
There are different designs that
are also memory resident process,
but they are not demon so this is just
one property of the demon processes.
So they are resident memory resident process.
Additionally they have to be in the
background, not visible like a demon.
This means that that program doesn't have
any direct interaction with the user.
You remember all our programs?
They need some interaction with the user.
The only program that we
discussed was the server.
Now this server was running and
waiting for the clients to make
a connection, but we don't.
That server doesn't interact with the user,
it just up waiting for the clients,
doesn't need any input from the user,
doesn't need anything from the user.
So in other words, the daemon process.
It doesn't have any input output terminal.
However, the dinner process can do
interaction in directly by putting the
information inside the file or device,
Bikol them as a log file.
Meaning that the daemon process behind
the seat is doing some tasks and the
progress of those tasks is not showing to
the user directly through the terminal.
However, the progress is inside a log file,
so if you want to see the progress,
you have to manually open that file and see
what is the progress of the demon process.
And the third property is that
demon process can be passive.
Meaning that it just is back.
I mean behind the scene in the
background waiting for other processes.
Very similar to this server program.
It it is only waits for other
clients to make a connection.
It does nothing. So we called.
Then passive or.
You can write a program.
Following the demon design
to be a proactive process,
meaning that behind the scene it
is actively doing something for us.
For instance, routinely report or
like the processor activity in a file.
For instance, the admin of the schools
machine can write it even process.
And that daemon process controls
whatever the students is running
in the schools machine and puts
the running time of that process.
The name of that process and the
name of the user inside a log file.
Later, the admin opens the file and see
who connected to the server and etc.
Another dangerous or another
kind of for hackers is.
Key loggers so the key logger is a
daemon process behind the scene you
don't know they are running behind the scene,
but they log whatever you put inside
a keyboard for a password text box.
So the key loggers logs.
All your passwords.
And later,
the guy that who wrote this daemon
process can look at the log file and
see what is the password of each users.
So.
Do you know where their little
key logger is running?
No, because it's in the background.
Can you kill it?
We have to see if it is possible or not.
So. At the beginning of this design.
Can you give me an obvious
example of a daemon process?
Through whole discourse.
You already saw this demon process.
But that was just a process and
following this design, but you don't.
You didn't know that that process
is a daemon process, actually.
So Mason says Shell Shell
actually is not a daemon process,
because when you log in you can
see it running and you can see
it is waiting for your input.
So it's not in the background.
Ah. So for the daemon process it
should have those main properties.
Invisible in the background and,
uh, uh. Lives forever, yes.
The shell lives forever,
but it's not in the background.
Yes, Michelle actually says,
correctly, the Colonel, correct?
The kernel is the main
process of a computer system.
It runs when you turn on your computer.
It bootstraps inside a memory.
It lives there forever,
up until you turn off the computer
and it is in the background.
Have you seen anything about the
kernel available to you as a user?
Have you interact with the process
in it so the init is the process
for the kernel inside the memory?
So the daemon process in it.
Can you see anything about that?
No, it is in the background,
you just request that process,
but you don't interact with the
kernel directly through the terminal.
It lives forever.
One interesting thing about the
Canon is that it has passive.
Part and it has proactive part.
The passive part, or those system calls.
So when you do a system call in
response to your system call,
so it waits for you to do some system call.
That's the passive part of the kernel.
There are some proactive part of the
kernel that acts behind the scene,
for instance a.
Defragment of the file system.
For instance, keeping track of.
The free space of memory.
For instance, when you finish your process.
Proactively, the kernel removes
the process from the memory.
So there are some proactive parts in
the kernel drum, some passive part.
So another example of a daemon process.
Uh. Justin says SSH, yes,
SSH is another. A demon process.
Basically it is in in the background waiting
for us to make it as such connection,
and when you do a connection it
provides the terminal for us.
It is available inside the memory of
the server in the schools machine.
And also yellow says in it yes
in it the process of the kernel.
As another example, I'm going to
focus on our own program this server.
So when we discussed the TCP type of
communication clients and the server,
we said that the server is a passive process.
Waits for the clients for connections.
But uh, when we run a server,
it waits for the client to make a connection,
but it has the terminal it
is interacting with the user.
Although it doesn't ask anything
from the user,
but we can see it is running and it is intra.
I mean we can see the server.
So just as a quick reminder,
this is our client in the
last week we discussed this.
The server basically runs at this
IP port waiting for the clients.
If a client connects the client.
So here we just have a client.
The client sends a hello.
The server receives the hello and
prints out the hello and then sends
back hello back to the client and
the client prints out the response
from the server which is hello back.
You see,
here we can see that the server is
responding or receiving the messages.
So. That's the small problem.
Because the daemon process must
be in the background without any,
uh, I mean visible interface.
So.
We have to,
so it's not in the background and
the user can see the terminal.
So how can we make it a daemon process?
You see here, this is a design.
We are not going to use any system
call and we are not going to ask the
kernel to make a process a demon.
We have to use the available system
calls in order to make our process a demon,
so this is again at a practice for a design.
So how can we do that?
We call this process demonising
or demonising a process.
Making a process putting in the background
and not visible and a main question is
that how can we humanize a process?
So my question is from you.
It could be a question in the final exam.
For instance, I would ask you how
can you make a process not visible
but running inside the memory.
Actually it was a challenging question so.
I want to give you just one or
two minutes to think about.
All the previous technologies that
we learned through the course.
All the patterns pattern child,
sender, receiver and etc.
All the patterns, producer consumer.
All these patterns that we discussed.
In order to come up.
With a way to demonize a process.
So we already have the code for a
for this server, so this is the
server we already have the code.
So if you already saw,
I mean I already operate
this code in the blackboard,
so it's the server TCP IP.
Communication Protocol TCP
communication creating a socket.
A binding to this IP and port.
And then, uh, so this is the binding.
And then here it starts listening
to the maximum of five calls from
the clients and in a while loop it
accepts the call from the clients
and then receive the messages and
prints out the message from the
client and sends back the hello back.
So this is the server code.
So my question,
I mean my question for me is this.
How can we change this code in order
to make it invisible or a demon?
So Mason says that printing message to file.
So Mason says that here.
Actually this is a good suggestion.
In order to make it invisible,
all these print statements.
Should be removed because the
invisible process shouldn't
interact with the terminal.
It should be in the background,
so I have to remove all these printers.
And then instead I open a file.
For instance, we can call it server that
log and we write to this server lock.
However, it works out, but it's still.
If I go back to the run off the server,
yes, you won't see these messages.
But when you run,
that program is still it is waiting for a.
Use it. You won't see these messages.
But you see that it's running and
the cursor is waiting for you.
It's not. It is kind of invisible,
but it's still some stars,
some visible part.
So let's see, Victor says that.
To demonize could you fork and have the
child that is consistent constantly waiting
for certain events in the background?
I suppose you could call it
perpetual child process.
And Michelle says that four kids
and make an offer. So let's, uh.
First with the victory.
Actually, Victor is a suggested very,
so this is my Mesa.
All the printf should be right with fine.
The second suggestion is that by Victor.
We put all these codes.
In give this to a child.
So basically at the
beginning line we do a fork.
And then give all these
lines of code to the child.
Then what happens to the parents?
So if there is no task for the parents.
We already said that the parents
should do a weight in order to
wait for the child to finish,
but because the child gonna have the
while loop, the child never finishes,
so the parents never reaches the weight,
so the parent has a waiting for the child
to finish, but the child never finishes.
But it's still.
It's a huge, uh, I mean.
A stab, so this is by Victor.
And the last part is by Michelle.
Michelle says that let's create
a child and make an orphan.
How can we make an orphan child?
Basically, if the parent doesn't do a
wait and the parent finishes quickly,
we have a child without the parents,
so we have an orphan child and that
often child is inside the memory.
Behind the scene waiting for
the clients for the connection,
and nobody knows that it's running.
Because it doesn't have any terminal
and etc and base on the may some
suggestion all whatever the child is
printing out going to be right into a
file so nobody sees that child is in
the background and waiting for the clients.
So you see here.
Without a new system call, we could put
all these together to come up with it.
Design A daemon process.
As you suggested, so the answer is this.
This is the code for the server.
First of all, we make a copy of
previous code and by convention the
programs that are going to act as
a demand usually have a D in the
end of the name of the program.
This is just a Convention,
it's not mandatory, it's just a
policy between the programmers that
if you want to run a daemon program,
so make it added into the name
of the program.
It's just convention. So we create.
I mean, we make a copy of the previous code.
Server D, meaning that this server
is a demon.
As Victor says that we wrap the whole,
uh, code of the server for a child.
So this means that we created four.
We do a four create a child.
If the child ID we already said
that if it is positive, not zero,
meaning that we are inside the parent.
If it is minus one meaning that
there is an error if it is zero,
it means that we are inside the child.
We said that if it is a parent, we just.
Exit right away.
So the parent exists right away.
What happens to the child process
the child process becomes an
orphan child and goes inside
the memory and runs forever.
We already said that the orphan child
gonna be adopted by the Colonel.
So there is no problem with this design.
And now if you run this program.
So if you run this program.
Although it has the printer statements,
it prints out some logs and
then it comes back to the shell.
To us it seems that it is.
Ended. However.
If you do appear as meaning
that the process status.
You can see that that process
is running behind the scene.
Waiting for the clients
to make a connection.
Now if I run the previous client program.
An interesting thing happens.
So this is the log of. This.
Is the printf forwarded client
so the client had the Socket 3?
The client says that I'm connecting
to the server at this IB port.
It Mexican action.
And then the server, the child process,
the daemon process inside the
memory receives the call.
And prints out.
This statement meaning that there
is a client connected to me.
And this is the message from that and
prints out the message from the client.
And then sends back the result
to the client and the client
prints out the response.
So these two lines of
code is not by the client,
it is printed out by this server.
Why?
Because the server is using
the standard output still.
It is behind the scene inside the memory,
but it is printing out to the terminal.
That's the point that the meysam suggest.
If we remove all the printing statements
and then make them run writing to a file.
So we can open a log file.
And we can do right into the log file.
Then nobody sees that behind the scene.
The server received the client.
Prints out the message from the
client into this file,
not to the terminal,
and then sends back the
results of the client.
So in summary, if you want to
demonize or demonize a process.
He created child and give all the all
your quotes are fine to that child.
For the parent part, you exit right
away so the child becomes an orphan.
Any printing statement? Should.
Be a change to write into a file so you
are not allowed to have printf again.
When I'm saying that you
are not allowed to do,
meaning that it is against the design.
Also, you are not allowed to have a scan app.
Because it scan,
it means that the user input something,
but the demon process doesn't
interact with the user.
So you have to change all these statements
to reading or writing from the file.
And then by convention you name
your program by adding the D at the
end of the name of the program.
There are some advanced steps for
demonising, a process that I'm
not going to go through them.
But I think you get the idea of a design.
How can we use the existing
technology system calls to provide
a design in some cases?
You would ask that can I have
another way to demonize a process?
The way we discussed you
could call it design one.
For demonising a process.
You may come up with another design.
For demonising a process so
it's not limited to just one
way of demonising a process,
you can find other ways
of demonising a process.
So the answer is yes,
but what are the other designs you
have to think about that they want?
I explained was in the book and
the more common way to do that.
One thing just just came to my mind
in the Windows operating system.
You may hear about something called services.
All these services are
in the Windows platform.
They call IT services,
but in the Unix platform we
call them daemon processes.
All these services are running
in the background and doing some
proactive tasks or passive tasks.
And an important question is this.
Now that the daemon process goes inside
the memory and wants to live forever,
is there any way to?
I finish it sometimes.
By mistake you make a daemon process
Daemon and will run it so it is invisible,
so you cannot simply press control C,
so you cannot press control C or control Z.
To stop or finish that process, how can you?
And a daemon process. So the answer is
that you have to kill that process.
How you can kill a daemon process?
Uh, it can happen by the help of the
shell in the shell at anytime you can
see the running processes by the process
status and then you can call kill
with the process ID of that process.
So in our case,
let's see what was the process ID.
So here's the process idea
of albumen process.
For this server we can simply write kill
1586249 and the shell.
I killed that process for you.
OK, so I'm done 50s today's
lecture and now we can.
Have your questions so we have.
Yes, kind of shotgun.
You have to kill that demon process.
A dust justice says that task manager,
uh, yes. I mean the Windows platform.
You can open the task manager and you can
ask the can and we can pick that demon
process and stop or finish that process.
But in the Unix platform,
the shell has the kill.
This is the post post standard command.
Just accept the idea of a
process and kiss for the effort.
This is a one way to kill the demon process.
There are other ways.
Uh, to give the process,
but that's one way.
For instance, we can write another program.
You have the ID you remember.
We have this signal.
In order to send a signal,
there is a system called kill.
You can't send the signal to that PID.
One of those signal was sick.
I kill I think yes. Uh or six stop.
So then that process received the
signal and if that process doesn't
handle that signal, it's going to
be finished because the default.
Action of this signal is
just finishing the process.
So now I think there's no question now.
I think we have some time to have
the opening scene of this movie.
So are you interested in seeing this? Or no.
Yeah, let's have a look.
Christmas came early this year.
Fellows introducing the ultimate
men screaming experience landscape.
So I just brings it here. Then do this.
Again before that you see that
the design is in any human craft.
When the human wants to make a movie.
When the human wants to write a program.
When the human wants to build this structure.
So in all whatever a human wants to create,
design matters. So do not think
about just do a task in any way.
Try to come up with a beautiful
or pretty way to do something
or the design to do something.
So you see, in this movie another
way of a horror movie so might be
different from other horror movies.
But this is the opening scene of a
horror movie and let's have a look.
Second
blah.
La La la.
Are you a doctor? Yes.
Get high protein.
So you see, it's a horror movie,
but it starts with pink color of
the phones and with a lullaby.
And with a beautiful view of the city.
And you see how it's strange the opening
of a scene of a horror movie is,
and I would highly suggest
you to watch this movie.
But we have to be careful.
I mean not to watch this movie.
Uh, I mean because honestly,
when I watched this movie,
I mean I was scared about a week.
Uh, yeah, so you see here again,
this director has its own design
of building a horror movie
which becomes one of the most.
A brilliant horror movie
in the history of cinema.
OK, so now we are done.
So any questions or anything
that you want to discuss?
I'm ready to take your questions.
Yes, actually that's his story.
I mean, that's lullaby mean.
Imagine that you enter a cinema.
You watch this lullaby and
you expect that something.
I mean, it's scary gonna happen.
And at the end of the movie
you'll see the contrast.
Actually, uh.
Is very beautiful.
I think if you watch this movie
then you stop playing that lullaby.
OK, so it seems there's no question, uh?
So I have to just stop this.
I'll be in the office Virtual
Office for your questions and have
a great day. Guys. Take care.
Justin, thank you for coming.
Thank you guys. Aaron esh take care.
Take a look. Thank you, Tommy.
Ventures all have a great day.
OK so I have to stop.